New security considerations from London (#12)
ietf-wg-elegy/rfc8989bis: draft-ietf-elegy-rfc8989bis.md

# Security Considerations {#security-considerations}

## NomCom capture

> The most potent threat model associated with NomCom eligibility is that an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most potent threat associated with NomCom eligibility is that an
```
It's a threat, not a model.

> organization or group of organizations would attempt to obtain a majority of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
organization or group of coordinating organizations would attempt to obtain a majority of
```

Whatever the merits of admitting remote attendees, it reduces the minimum cost

> of creating a NomCom-eligible volunteer from three flights and ~5 days of travel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of creating a NomCom-eligible volunteer from three in-person trips of ~5 days each
```

over the course of at least 8 months, to zero financial cost and the time
required to log in three times over at least 8 months. Some organizations might

> not be deterred in either case, while others might now find such an attack to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not be deterred in either case, while others might now find such an attack to not be
```

capture (see {{capture-math}}).

A sudden surge in the number of volunteers, particularly of people that no one

> recognizes as a part of the community, is an early-warning system for leadership

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recognizes as a part of the community, is an early-warning sign for the community, leadership
```

and the IETF Secretariat to further investigate. One response would be to deny
fee waivers to suspect attendees, as these are issued at the discretion of the

> IETF and IRTF chairs.

Reviewer: In-person fee waivers are issued by the IETF and IRTF chairs, but remote ones are supposed to be freely available, see draft-ietf-shmoo-remote-fee (which will be a BCP soon). We may need to add something to the security considerations of draft-ietf-shmoo-remote-fee if the intent is for someone to have the ability to deny those remote waivers.

Author: In the remote-fee draft, it says: "If the free option requires additional registration steps, such as applying for a fee waiver, those requirements should be clearly documented." An application suggests a possible refusal? Section 4 of that draft also mentions potential misuse. I'll instead refer to Section 4 rather than pinning it on the chairs.

Reviewer: I think the intent is that remote fee waivers be available freely, i.e., without much checking or process, and that they only be limited in extraordinary circumstances. So this draft should assume they are widely available to anyone.

three conspiring organizations would need 771 volunteers (257 per organization)
for a 50% chance of NomCom capture (see {{capture-math}}).

### One Year of Participation

Attendance at 3 meetings requires at least 8 months. Given the volume of
volunteers necessary to capture the process, an attack requires a surge in
attendees over the course of a year. The IETF Secretariat SHOULD analyze
unexplained surges in attendance to look for signs of manipulating the
eligibility requirements (e.g. logging in to a single session and then
immediately logging out). In the event of abuse of process, the leadership would

> then have months to adjust policy in response before the NomCom cycle begins.

Reviewer: We should not task the secretariat with this, since they don't know what an "unexplained surge" might look like.

If we want a safeguard here, it should IMO take the form of a community review/challenge period.

out). In the event of abuse of process, the leadership would then have months to
adjust policy in response before the NomCom cycle begins.

## Disruptive candidates

Note that the normalization of consistent remote participation allows for a
single individual to mount an attack that previously required coordination. By

> registering under a number of different identities over a year, an individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
registering for IETF meetings using a number of different identities over a year, an individual
```

can make each of those identities NomCom eligible and then serve under any one
of them that is selected for the NomCom.  Once selected, an individual could
seek to disrupt the process or prevent the timely conclusion of its work.

This attack is much harder to detect or prevent than equivalent attacks were
previously, as it does not require coordination among multiple attendees.
While the attacker cannot be sure of fee waivers for some or all of the
different identities, the lower cost for remote participation also makes this
attack more feasible than it would have been under prior rules.

However, the voting member recall procedure in {{Section 5.7 of RFC8713}} exists
to allow removal and replacement of disruptive figures.

## Additional remedies

Additional changes to the process to further obstruct attacks against the
NomCom are beyond the scope of this document. However, a challenge process
against volunteers with a suspicious reported affiliation, or that might be
aliases of a single volunteer, could trigger an investigation by the

> Secretariat.

Reviewer: The secretariat is not the IETF police. They would only provide data to leadership, and someone in leadership would need to make a decision. (Please check this wherever you talk about the secretariat doing something.)
